The food pattern is one of the modifiable factors for improving lifestyle and disease prevention. It is known that changes in diet have an effect on the evolution of chronic noncommunicable diseases (CNCD) of high prevalence, such as obesity, depression, anxiety, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases. In order to prevent the CNCD, changing eating habits is strongly recommended. In addition, physical fitness, through systematized physical activities or that increase daily caloric expenditure, also contributes to the prevention of CNCD. Precision medicine, or precise health, is an approach for disease treatment and prevention that considers individual variability in genes, environment, and lifestyle. The applying of precision medicine has been broadly improved by the recent development of the large-scale biologic database, powerful methods for characterizing patients, and the use of high and smart technology. It is important to consider the computational tools for analyzing large data sets and, in this way, health-care providers will depend on electronic clinical decision support to quickly make appropriate treatment decisions. Computer systems that have a certain degree of intelligence and human/expert independence to infer about the preexisting data, in order to support the decision, could be useful, since the data generated require rapid and reliable analysis from a large number of variables. Among the available computational tools, artificial intelligence (AI) has gained more and more attention recently, since it is able to learn and model linear and nonlinear relationships between variables by constructing an input-output mapping such that hidden and extremely useful information for decision-making is revealed and interpreted. Although AI is not yet widely used in the areas of nutrition and fitness, it was found that the current technology available (information technology, several sensors, the use of nanotechnology and the advent of computers, IPhones, and smartphones) is favorable to the application of AI, since a large amount of data is collected by these technologies and, therefore, AI could be very useful in their mining. This chapter provides a discussion about the importance of nutrition and fitness for health and well-being; what is precision medicine, AI, precision nutrition, and precision fitness; how AI could help with precision nutrition and precision fitness; decision-making algorithm for nutritional meal planning/dietary menu planning; AI-based diet and supplements; AI used in genetic tests for precision nutrition and fitness; AI approach to nutritional meal planning for cancer, cardiovascular diseases, obesity, T2D patients; AI-based nutrition and fitness support systems and apps and some challenges and future perspectives.. Lopes, Maria Helena & Ferreira, Danton & Barbosa, Ana & da Silva, Giuliano Roberto & Caetano, Aletha & Braz, Vitória. (2020). Use of artificial intelligence in precision nutrition and fitness. 10.1016/B978-0-12-817133-2.00020-3. The food pattern is one of the modifiable factors for improving lifestyle and disease prevention. It is known that changes in diet have an effect on the evolution of chronic noncommunicable diseases (CNCD) of high prevalence, such as obesity, depression, anxiety, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases. In order to prevent the CNCD, changing eating habits is strongly recommended. In addition, physical fitness, through systematized physical activities or that increase daily caloric expenditure, also contributes to the prevention of CNCD. Precision medicine, or precise health, is an approach for disease treatment and prevention that considers individual variability in genes, environment, and lifestyle. The applying of precision medicine has been broadly improved by the recent development of the large-scale biologic database, powerful methods for characterizing patients, and the use of high and smart technology. It is important to consider the computational tools for analyzing large data sets and, in this way, health-care providers will depend on electronic clinical decision support to quickly make appropriate treatment decisions. Computer systems that have a certain degree of intelligence and human/expert independence to infer about the preexisting data, in order to support the decision, could be useful, since the data generated require rapid and reliable analysis from a large number of variables. Among the available computational tools, artificial intelligence (AI) has gained more and more attention recently, since it is able to learn and model linear and nonlinear relationships between variables by constructing an input-output mapping such that hidden and extremely useful information for decision-making is revealed and interpreted. Although AI is not yet widely used in the areas of nutrition and fitness, it was found that the current technology available (information technology, several sensors, the use of nanotechnology and the advent of computers, IPhones, and smartphones) is favorable to the application of AI, since a large amount of data is collected by these technologies and, therefore, AI could be very useful in their mining. This chapter provides a discussion about the importance of nutrition and fitness for health and well-being; what is precision medicine, AI, precision nutrition, and precision fitness; how AI could help with precision nutrition and precision fitness; decision-making algorithm for nutritional meal planning/dietary menu planning; AI-based diet and supplements; AI used in genetic tests for precision nutrition and fitness; AI approach to nutritional meal planning for cancer, cardiovascular diseases, obesity, T2D patients; AI-based nutrition and fitness support systems and apps and some challenges and future perspectives.